Story Recapped here. Today, I'm going to
explain a horror film called "Southbound."
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
Best friends Mitch and Jack are driving on
a nameless highway in the middle of nowhere.
Both of them appear to be bloody and in a state of
panic. Along the way, Mitch looks at a photograph
of his daughter, Katherine, before gazing at a
floating creature from afar. Although the sight
of the evil-looking creature creeps Mitch out,
he does not tell Jack about it. Not long after,
they pull up to a nearby gas station where
Sutter works as a cashier. Upon entering,
she gives the men an intimidating look
while they take refuge in the small space.
Jack freshens up in the bathroom as his
body is covered in scars and deep wounds.
He fails to notice the skeletal creature from
behind him, allowing it to grab him from behind.
Mitch patiently waits for his friend in the dining
area while Sutter keeps her eyes fixed on him.
Suddenly, an earthquake takes place, but everyone
else inside the station does not notice it at all.
When he looks out the window, the mysterious
creature still waits for them outside.
Jack survives the attack and rushes outside with
his friend. In a taunting manner, Sutter says,
"come again" as they leave. Both of them head
out of the station and back to the road to be
far away as possible. Weirdly, they pull up
to the same gas station once again. They seem
to be going in circles multiple times as
they repeatedly wind back to the station.
Another problem arises because more skeletal
creatures are appearing along the road.
Mitch loses his patience and gets out of the
car, completely hopeless about their situation.
Determined to escape, Jack follows Mitch and
reminds him of the purpose of their journey, which
is to save Katherine. After their argument, Jack
decides to go back to the car just as the skeletal
creature looks at the both of them. When he gets
inside, it quickly flies to the car and drags
him outside. In seconds, the creature kills Jack
through his mouth and leaves as soon as he dies.
Before taking the last look at his friend, Mitch
follows the creature, believing that it is his
fate. The creature leads him to a nearby motel
and into room 6-2-2-5. Upon entering, Mitch sees
traces of blood on the wall, but the sight of it
does not hinder him from exploring its contents.
Mitch feels a sense of confusion as to the
interior looks too familiar and close to home.
He examines the other corners of the room
and hears a little girl call out, "dad."
An apparition of Katherine appears from behind but
runs as soon as Mitch tries to reunite with her.
He chases her around the house, but to no avail.
Katherine keeps begging Mitch to help her,
but her screams become muffled. The
whole situation puts Mitch in torment,
trapped in the hallways of the
house, which seem to be endless.
In the room, next door, Sadie, Ava, and Kim,
who belong to a band called The White
Tights, prepare for their next gig.
During their road trip, they stop at famous
landmarks to take pictures and have fun.
Out of nowhere, a tire goes flat, forcing them
to pull over on the highway. They try to contact
friends for some help, but none of them are
available at the moment. Even their phone G.P.S.
could not detect their location, putting them
in a much more helpless state. Despite this, Kim
remains in a good mood and says that they should
share a drink instead while waiting for help.
After hours of being stranded,
a car eventually passes by.
Inside are a friendly couple, Dale and Betty,
who offers them a ride. Sadie politely declines
and informs the couple that they are used to
sleeping in their van. However, Dale and Betty
are insistent on letting them ride by offering
multiple solutions. Despite their friendly facade,
the girls sense a different vibe and decide to
stay. As the couple drives off, Kim has a change
of heart and calls on Dale and Betty, claiming
that they are their best chance of getting help.
Along the way, the unlikely friend group gets
to know each other. While in the backseat,
Sadie spots a bear trap and asks Betty about it.
According to Dale, they keep it there for coyotes.
Finally, they arrive at the couple's home, and
the girls are welcomed into the humble abode.
Betty even leads them to a pleasant room where
they could stay for as long as they want.
Before Betty leaves them to stay cozy, Sadie
hears her mention their late friend Alex,
which she finds odd. Contrary to it, neither
Kim nor Ava seems to notice what the woman said
as they look around the room. Sadie raises
her concerns about staying in the house,
but the two persuade her to relax and have fun.
Later that night, the Kensingtons: Raymond,
Bunny, and their twin sons come over for dinner.
Before their meal, they hold hands in prayer, but
when Ava says "Amen," the family looks at her in
disgust. They are served burnt roast beef on the
table, but Sadie, a vegetarian, politely declines.
She even finds it weird that Kim and Ava
seem to enjoy their time with the strangers.
After dinner, Ava prepares for a nice warm bath
when a mysterious shadow passes behind her in
the window. However, she does not notice it at
all. Sadie finds a pocket knife inside a drawer
in the room, but she tucks it in any way. She
expresses her thoughts on being uncomfortable
in the home and that they should be on the road
to make it on time to their gig. Not long after,
Kim starts to blame Sadie for Alex's death,
saying that it was her fault. As she explains
how she did not leave Alex on the night of her
death, Kim begins to vomit a black substance,
and so does Ava. Shocked by the sight of it, she
runs to the living room to ask for help, but the
families are untroubled by it. As she grins, Bunny
tells them that the first time is the worst time.
Dale finally gets up to pour a glass of white
liquid medicine, which he lets Ava and Kim drink.
The two girls drink the liquid in sync. Both
act weirder as time passes, refusing to leave
the house and the overly friendly couple. Despite
Sadie's pleas, they remain unbothered, causing her
to storm to the bathroom. Inside, she browses old
pictures of the band and cries over Alex's death.
Moments after, she returns to the room where she
sees the twins standing still from the window.
Sadie immediately closes the window and guards
herself with the pocket knife she found earlier.
She sits by the bed and eventually falls asleep.
Sadie dreams about Alex asking her why she left
her before getting killed in a car accident. When
Sadie wakes up, Ava and Kim are gone. She peeks at
the window and sees her friends following the two
families around a bonfire as they participate in
a cult ritual. While chanting, Betty, Dale, Bunny,
and Raymond cut themselves, and use their blood
to draw a symbol on the girls' forehead. After
a triangular symbol is drawn on them, Ava and
Kim's eyes subtly transform, just like the others.
While watching the ritual from a nearby bush,
Sadie's foot gets caught in the bear trap from
earlier, causing her to let out a faint scream.
The noise grabs everyone's attention, and her
friends walk toward her. Ava and Kim creepily
crawl in her direction, but Sadie manages to stop
them from getting any closer. She unclamps herself
from the trap and takes refuge in a small shed.
Not long after, Alex’s ghost emerges
from the dark to scare Sadie off.
Out of fear, she runs back to the highway
in hopes that help will eventually come.
Meanwhile, a man named Lucas drives along the
highway while talking to his wife, Claire,
on the phone. He keeps looking at pictures of
Claire, causing a great distraction on the road.
Because of this, Lucas accidentally runs Sadie
over in the middle of the pitch-black road.
Still in a state of shock, he decides to come
down and sees Sadie still clinging to dear life.
Lucas calls 9-1-1 to ask for help
with Sadie's critical injuries,
but he is unable to tell the dispatcher
where he is. Even his phone could not
detect the location using the G-P-S, so the
dispatcher connects him to Emergency Medical.
In a matter of seconds, a certified
E-M-T gets on the line to help Lucas out.
The E-M-T demands him to describe Sadie's
state right now and drive her to a nearby town.
He abides by her orders and gets back
on the road. After the long stretch of
the nameless highway, he arrives at a
local hospital in the heart of town.
Lucas carries Sadie's body inside the
facility and realizes that the hospital
is completely abandoned. He continues to
communicate with the E-M-T on the phone,
who is utterly useless at the moment. Lucas checks
the rooms for any signs of help but to no avail.
After several empty rooms, he finally arrives
at a surgery room where he could lay her down.
Suddenly, Sadie's right knee ruptures
and falls apart from her upper leg.
Without knowing what to do, Lucas listens to
the E-M-T instructing him to intubate Sadie.
At this point, Sadie keeps twitching
as her body loses more blood.
Upon finding the intubating kit, he
inserts the tube through her bloody mouth,
struggling to find the right position. Out of
nowhere, a third voice replaces that of the
E-M-T's and claims that he is a professional
surgeon. The voice makes Lucas reach into the
poor girl's body to manually compress her lungs
and keep her breathing. Afterward, the voice
instructs him to make an incision just below her
ribcage, which he follows out of desperation.
Lucas reaches her lungs from the incision and
compresses them, which kills Sadie instantly.
Through his earphones, Lucas hears the
voices laugh at him, and he hangs up quickly.
He leaves the operating room but realizes that he
is trapped as all doors are now locked. Realizing
that he has been tricked into killing Sadie, he
sits in the hallway of the abandoned building.
Upon returning to retrieve his phone, Claire
calls him, and to his surprise, it is not her who
answers. The dispatchers from earlier persuade
him to talk about the accident, but he says he
does not deserve it. Surprisingly, they agree
and tell him that he can leave the hospital.
Moreover, they provide Lucas with access to
new clothes and even a new car, so it will
appear as though nothing happened. He hesitantly
leaves, but the dispatchers assure him that he has
nothing to worry about. Lucas drives away after
hanging up the phone, and a woman named Sandy,
who is actually the E-M-T, does the same.
After saying goodbye to Lucas on the phone,
Sandy walks to a nearby bar named Trap. The
old and rundown bar is occupied by bar patrons
including Warren, and the bartender, Al. As Sandy
orders a drink, Al reprimands her for leaving
the door open, causing an argument to ensue.
Warren backs Al up just as Danny barges
inside with a shotgun, looking for his sister,
Jesse. He holds Warren at gunpoint upon
showing Jesse's picture to him but is useless.
While Danny questions Al about his tattoo, Warren
appears to be a demon and transforms his hand.
He strikes Danny from behind,
causing a big wound on his back.
However, Danny manages to knock Warren down and
blows off his demonic hand. For the last time,
Danny asks the patrons if they know
Jesse's whereabouts, and Al says yes.
This prompts Danny to take him hostage and make
him drive through the long stretch of highway.
Both of them arrive at the backdoor of an ice
cream parlor, where Al claims Jesse is located.
They enter through the secret doorway and
see multiple men in a queue. Al then leads
Danny to a room where he sees Jesse
applying a tattoo on a patron's back.
The siblings reunite and hold each other for the
first time in thirteen years. While they embrace,
Al hits Danny on the knee, causing him to
fall to the ground. The injured Danny begs
Jesse to come home with him, but she refuses to.
According to her, she is in that place by choice.
In a fit of rage, Danny shoots Al, making him
shriek in a demonic manner before Danny finishes
him off. He kidnaps his sister and drives in the
pitch-black road while the locals, who are all
demons, chase them. Jesse begs his big brother
not to go off-road, but he pays her no mind,
determined to be out of the place. The car shakes
violently for some time before Danny decides to
stop for a moment. Jesse reveals that she deserves
to live in the horrible town after killing their
parents. Her words leave Danny speechless, and
demons drag him out of the car not long after.
Without any intentions to help, Jesse leaves him
behind and drives back to the ice cream parlor.
Jesse sees a rather friendly girl named
Jem, who just got out of the bathroom by
the secret entrance. Jesse shoos her away,
and Jem meets back with her parents Cait
and Daryl. Jem has a few days left before she
embarks on her college life, hence the road
trip to their vacation house. From afar, someone
watches them get into their car and drive off.
The family eventually arrives at the
place and sees a pleasant living space.
While Jem unpacks her stuff, Cait and
Daryl prepare dinner in the kitchen.
She overhears her parents talk about her going
to college and if she really is ready. They hear
knocks on the door and other corners of the house
out of nowhere, but no one seems to be there. All
three of them start to feel unsafe and uneasy,
so Daryl instructs his wife to call the cops.
As he peeks outside, he sees a masked man
standing still just outside their place.
When Daryl checks again, the man appears
closer, causing him to be more frightened.
The man repeatedly knocks more aggressively,
so they decide to find an alternative exit.
They pass through a glass door, but they
go back in when two men block their escape.
Inside, the lights go off, and the shadows
of the intruders are seen by the door.
As they break in, Daryl, Cait,
and Jem separate unintentionally.
Cait and Daryl hide behind a table, but they
get caught and knocked out by the masked men.
On the other hand, Jem safely hides
inside a closet and stays unnoticed.
Back in the living area, the men confront Daryl,
making him realize that he actually knows them.
One of them whispers to Cait what her husband
did, and she is astonished at Daryl's secret.
He repeatedly says sorry to Cait, who is now being
gagged mercilessly. Cait is sadly killed in front
of Daryl; as he grieves, the car's lights and horn
turned on, grabbing their attention. One of them
goes out to check but sees no one inside the car.
As he walks back to the house, Jem stabs him from
behind before taking the bat he holds. The two
men confront her outside and order her to leave at
that instant. Jem drives off on her own while the
men stab Daryl to death. In his dying breath, they
force him to look at Katherine's photograph and
unmask themselves—appearing to be Mitch and Jack.
Upon leaving the house, Jem hits them with a bat,
fighting back for what they did to her parents.
Jack chases her inside the house, but she manages
to stab him with a wine opener. She gets a glimpse
of her parents' corpses before she escapes, but
Mitch kills her in the process. For a moment, the
commotion subsides—but not for long. A tentacled
creature comes out of Jem's body and her parents'.
As they try to flee, the third man gets
dragged by a creature from beneath the ground.
Mitch and Jack become slightly relieved after
narrowly escaping death, but the creatures
continue to chase and attack them. One even blocks
their way, but Jack accelerates and runs it over.
After, both of them agree to go back home
as they drive through the nameless highway.
With his bloody hands, Mitch clings to
Katherine's photograph, immensely missing her.
Mitch notices the creatures along the way out in
the middle of nowhere, but he does not tell Jack.
Once again, they end up at the same gas
station, where Sutter expects their arrival.
The story interconnects the lives of the
characters who drive on the same highway
in the middle of nowhere. Each of them harbors
dark secrets that they seem to run away from,
causing their eternal suffering. Everything
is a never-ending cycle of the worst day of
the characters' lives—just as how hell is
depicted. Their sufferings are consequences
of actions they have done in their past life. The
title Southbound parallels the direction of hell,
which is down. No matter which route the
characters take, all roads lead south.